

                                                 Section – A  ( 5X2 =10 Marks)                            
1(a).	(i) Kalyan really enjoys riding motorcycles. It gives him great personal satisfaction. His desire to ride motorcycles connects to which of the following?
a. extrinsic motivation     b. a drive     c. intrinsic motivation    d. a need
(ii) Learning is self-initiated, but it must be aided by…………….
a. motives                               b. our maximum style              
c. love and care                      d. the result
                                            	CO3	BL 3	2
1(b).	(i) Self-motivation is________________
a.	the force that drives you to do things.
b.	the ability to get good marks.
c.	the experience of a job.
d.	the way you carry yourself.
(ii)  Sustaining momentum in motivating others is______________
a.	confidence in how to do it
b.	passing on the leadership of change
c.	true commitment to the journey
d.	understanding of what to do	CO3	BL 2, 3	2
1(c).	(i) Regarding leadership, which statement is false?
       a.  Leadership does not necessarily take place within a hierarchical     structure of an organization.
       b. When people operate as leaders their role, is not always clearly established and defined.
       c. Not every leader is a manager.
       d. All of the above
(ii) Rearrange the steps of extrinsic motivation logically.
A. Drive towards the goal
B. Attainment of the goal
C. Reward/Rewards
D. Individuals preferences
E. Unsatisfied needs 

   a. DCAEB
   b. BCDEA
   c. DEACB
   d. ABCDE                                                    	CO3	BL 3,4	2
1(d).	(i) Which of the following sentences about resilience and personal growth is TRUE?
 a. Some people are born with more ability for resilience than others.
 b. If you are not immediately great at playing an instrument, you will never become great at it.
 c. You should only pursue things you are naturally good at.
 d. You can learn a skill if you stick with it, practice, and are willing to grow   from mistakes.     
(ii) What will be the third stage of listening?
a.	Responding   b. Evaluating  c. Understanding  d. Remembering

                                               	CO4	BL 2	2
1(e).	(i) Examples of environmental stressors are
a.	Weather
b.	Traffic
c.	Financial problems
d.	Substandard housing
e.	Only ‘a’, ‘b’ & ‘d’ are right.

(ii) The following are the characteristics of Positive Stress
a.	It improves performance
b.	It causes anxiety
c.	It demotivates
d.	All of the above
                                                     	CO4	BL 4	2
Section – B ( 4X5 = 20 Marks)
2(a).	(i) Which of the options is incorrect with respect to the importance of ‘employee motivation’?
     a.  It promotes employee involvement
     b.  It promotes job satisfaction
     c.  Reduces absenteeism
     d.  Increases absenteeism
(ii)  _____ is the set of forces that energize, direct, and sustain behaviour.
      a. Motivation 
      b. Expectancy
      c. Empowerment
      d. Socialization

(iii) Mobilization is to organize or prepare something such as a group of people for a purpose.
a.	True 
b.	False                                                        
(iv) Which of the following best describes the concept of an emotion?
a.	a response to an external or internal stimulus with the purpose of motivating an action or behaviour
b.	an enduring or recurrent state with no specific causes
c.	the mental representation of general feelings within an individual
d.	a highly illogical concept, captain

(i) Person perception is:
a.	the process of how we manage, experience, and adjust our emotions
b.	the process by which we form impressions and process information about people
c.	the process by which we adjust to different cultural situations
d.	the process by which we learn cultural norms and standards of behavior
	CO3	BL 2,4	5
2(b).	 Write the elements which stop or reduce an individual’s motivation.	CO3	BL 3,5	5
2(c).	(i) Aches, shallow breathing and sweating, frequent colds are
a.	Physical symptoms of stress
b.	Behavioural symptoms of stress
c.	Emotional symptoms of stress
d.	Cognitive symptoms of stress
(ii) Which of these should be avoided for effective listening?
a) Pre-listening analysis        b) Listening to structured talks
c) Team listening                  d) Predicting
(iii) Which of the following are stress busters
a.	Trying to find something funny in a difficult situation
b.	Developing a support network
c.	Taking a mindful walk
d.	All of the above
(iv) The best way to protect the body from the harmful effects of stress is to 
a.	learn how to avoid it 
b.	learn how to manage it 
c.	take your anger out on inanimate objects
d.	take a long walk and bottle up your frustration
(v) Which of the following statements is false in relation to stress? 
a.	When under stress, the entire body becomes tense and posture changes. 
b.	Large amounts of time spent in front of a computer can result in eyestrain headaches. 
c.	Tension uses up energy, but the energy is largely productive. 
d.	d. Muscle tension affects our ability to function well.	CO4	BL 3	5
2(d).	How can we develop flexibility in thoughts and behavior?	CO4	BL 3	5
Section – C ( 2X10 = 20 Marks)
3(a).

3(b).	Explain the techniques of Motivating others with appropriate examples. 	CO3	BL 3,4	10
	----OR-----
	Write short note on the following.
1.	Going extra miles
2.	Learning and analysis	CO3	BL 3	10
4(a).

4(b).	What is Stress Management? Write the role of 4 A’s in stress management.	CO4	BL 2,3	10
	----OR----
	How are teamwork and communication interconnected? Explain with elaborative examples.	CO4	BL 1,3	10


